***** latin-unity

This is the beta test version of the latin-unity package for Mule
XEmacs.

This file has not been updated; the new Texinfo manual is more reliable.

Mule bogusly considers the various ISO-8859 extended character sets as
disjoint, when ISO 8859 itself clearly considers them to be subsets of
a larger character set.  For example, all of the Latin character sets
include NO-BREAK SPACE at code point 32 (ie, 0xA0 in an 8-bit code),
but the Latin-1 and Latin-2 NO-BREAK SPACE characters are considered
to be different by Mule, an obvious absurdity.  This package provides
functions which determine the list of coding systems which can encode
all of the characters in the buffer, and translate to a common coding
system if possible.

***** Features:

  o ISO 8859/15 for XEmacs 21.4 (lightly tested) and 21.1 (untested).
    To get 'iso-8859-15 preferred to 'iso-8859-1 in autodetection, use
    (set-coding-category-system 'iso-8-1 'iso-8859-15).  (untested)

    If all you want is ISO 8859/15 support, you can either copy the
    ISO 8859/15 setup to another file, or `(require 'latin-unity-vars).

  o If a buffer contains only ASCII and ISO-8859 Latin characters, the
    buffer can be "unified", that is treated so that all characters are
    translated to one charset that includes them all.  If the current
    buffer coding system is not sufficient, the package will suggest
    alternatives.  It prefers ISO-8859 encodings, but also suggests
    UTF-8 (if available; 21.4+ feature), ISO 2022 7-bit, or X Compound
    Text if no ISO 8859 coding system is comprehensive enough.

    It allows the user to use other coding systems, and the list of
    suggested coding systems is Customizable.

    This probably also is useful out of the box if the buffer contains
    non-Latin characters in addition to a mixture of Latin
    characters.  For example, I believe it would reduce a buffer
    originally ISO-2022-JP (including Latin-1 characters) to ISO
    8859/1 if all the Japanese were deleted.  (untested)

  o Hooks into `write-region' to prevent (or at least drastically
    reduce the probability of) introduction of ISO 2022 escape
    sequences for "foreign" character sets.  This hook is not set by
    default in this package yet; try M-x latin-unity-test RET for a
    short introduction and some useful C-x C-e'able exprs.

    This may permit us to turn off support for those sequences
    entirely in our ISO 8859 coding-systems.

  o Depends only on mule-base in operation.  Table generation depends
    on Unicode support such as Mule-UCS or Ben's ben-mule-21-5
    workspace, and the package build currently requires Mule-UCS.

Current misfeatures:

  o If the buffer is changed by the hook, apparently write-region
    starts over again from the top.  The buffer is checked again, and
    you are asked to choose the coding system again.  If you choose
    the same one, then the save goes through.

    Note that if you choose a non-default coding system the first time
    through, you will not get your choice as a default the second
    time.  You'll get the same default as the first time.

  o Probable performance hit on large (> 20kB) buffers with many
    (>20%) non-ASCII characters.  Possible otimizations are given near
    `latin-unity-region-feasible-representations' in latin-unity.el.

  o Custom-loads aren't built for the package.  You'll need to `(require
    'latin-unity)' to get Customize's information loaded.

  o Package depends on Mule-UCS.

Planned:

  o Fix the misfeatures.

  o GNU Emacs support.

  o Fix JIS Roman (as an alternative to ASCII) support.

  o More UI features (like list of unrepresentable charsets, and
    perhaps highlighting them in buffer)

  o Integration to development tree (but probably not 21.4, this
    package should be good enough).

  o Eliminate all need for Mule-UCS.

Not planned:

  o Extension to Han-unity.  This needs to be treated more carefully.

***** Availability:

These URLs will change upon public release.

    anonymous CVS:
    Get the XEmacs/packages/mule-packages/latin-unity module.  You'll
    need to fix up the lists of packages in the package-compile.el
    utility (and possible in mule-package/Makefile) to build a
    package, but for general use, just byte-compiling latin-unity and
    latin-unity-tables, and putting them on your path, should be fine.

    WWW:
    http://turnbull.sk.tsukuba.ac.jp/Tools/XEmacs/latin-unity-0.90-pkg.tar.gz


***** Basic usage:

To set up the package, simply put

(add-hook 'write-region-pre-hook #'latin-unity-sanity-check)

in your init file.


***** Implementation:

latin-unity.el is the main library, providing the detection and translation
functionality, including a hook function to hang on `write-region-pre-hook'.

latin-unity-vars.el contains the definition of ISO 8859/15 and variables
common to several modules.

latin-unity-tables.el contains the table of feasible character sets and
equivalent Mule characters from other character sets for the various Mule
representations of each character.  Automatically generated.

latin-unity-utils.el contains utilities for creating the equivalence
table.


